---
title: "Grace"
subtitle:
name: grace
norsk: boker/2002/12/18/nade
layout: book
cat: Fiction
isbn: 9781400078028
isbn_digital: 9780307415349
cover_image: grace-us-hb-L.jpg
publisher: Knopf Doubleday
next_book: a-blessed-child
previous_book: stella-descending
published:
- Denmark
- Estonia
- Finland
- France
- Germany
- Hungary
- Iceland
- Israel
- Italy
- Latvia
- Norway
- Spain
- Sweden
- United Kingdom
- US
world_rights: "World Rights: [The Wylie Agency](http://www.wylieagency.com/)"
covers:
- grace-uk-hb-L.jpg  
- grace-denmark-hb-L.jpg  
- grace-finland-hb-L.jpg  
- grace-denmark-hb-L.jpg  
- grace-germany-pb-L.jpg  
- grace-italy-hb-L.jpg  
- grace-no-hb-L.jpg  
- grace-no-pb-L.jpg  
- grace-spain-pb-L.jpg  
- grace-stella-and-grace-russia-hb-L.jpg  
- grace-sweden-film-L.jpg  
---
Johan has bargained with Death for years: when he was a boy, he prayed that Death take his father, not his mother; when he was a man, Death kindly removed  his wife, Alice, allowing him to marry Mai, the love of his life. Now, Death has come for him, and Johan needs to strike one last bargain: when the moment arrives, he wants Mai to promise that she will help him on his way out of the  world.

Johan has been mainly a paragon of mediocrity; it is only through his  love for Mai that he has seen the greater possibilities that life can sometimes  offer. He is determined that his passing will be dignified, controlled - perhaps  even comforting. But when the time comes, and Mai has finally agreed to help  him, he is no longer sure even that he has asked the right question. His  deathbed is not as he imagined. His life - as a husband, lover and father - was  never what it could have been. And, why is it exactly, he wonders, that his one  true love has agreed to be his angel of death? 

Linn Ullmann's haunting novel portrays a passionate love affair, and asks difficult questions about life,  love, and death. Finally, in prose of cool precision, deep insight and dark wit, it illustrates how the most ordinary of lives can, in the end, be unexpectedly  touched by grace.

For *Grace* Linn Ullmann received the literary award The Reader’s Prize in Norway and *Grace* was named one of the top ten novels that year by the prestigious newspaper *Weekendavisen* in Denmark. In 2007, *Grace* was longlisted for the Independent Foreign Fiction Prize in the UK, and in March the same year, the Norwegian theater Riksteatret played a successful run of the theatrical play *Grace*, based on the novel.

### Reviews

- [*The Guardian*, 13 January 2007](/assets/files/Guardian-13-01-2007.pdf)  
- [*The Independent*, by Paul Binding, 22 January 2006](/assets/files/Independent-Paul-Binding-22-01-2006.pdf)  
- [*The Independent*, 22 January 2006](/assets/files/Independent-22-01-2006.pdf)  
- [*Time Out London*, 18 January 2006](/assets/files/Time-Out-London-18-01-2006.pdf)  
- [*Washington Post*, 27 March 2005](/assets/files/Washington-Post-27-03-2005.pdf)  
- [*New York Times*, 30 January 2005](http://query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?res=9F07EFDB1138F933A05752C0A9639C8B63&amp;sec=&amp;spon=&amp;emc=eta1)  
